README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
ukpolice
========

[![AppVeyor Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/njtierney/ukpolice?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/njtierney/ukpolice)[![Travis-CI Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/njtierney/ukpolice.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/njtierney/ukpolice)[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/njtierney/ukpolice/master.svg)](https://codecov.io/github/njtierney/ukpolice?branch=master)

ukpolice is an R package that facilitates retrieving data from the [UK police database.](https://data.police.uk/)

This package is in a very beta stage, and I'm still learning a lot about APIs!

Installation
============

Install from GitHub

``` r

#install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("njtierney/ukpolice")
```

Usage
=====

`ukp_neighbourhood`, retrieves a list of neighbourhoods for a force, <https://data.police.uk/docs/method/neighbourhoods/>

This returns a tibble with columns `id` and `name`.

``` r

library(ukpolice)
ukp_neighbourhood("leicestershire")
#> No encoding supplied: defaulting to UTF-8.
#> # A tibble: 67 × 2
#>       id                           name
#>    <chr>                          <chr>
#> 1   NC04                    City Centre
#> 2   NC66               Cultural Quarter
#> 3   NC67                      Riverside
#> 4   NC68                 Clarendon Park
#> 5   NE09                 Belgrave South
#> 6   NE10                 Belgrave North
#> 7   NE11                    Rushey Mead
#> 8   NE12                    Humberstone
#> 9   NE13 Northfields, Tailby and Morton
#> 10  NE14                     Thurncourt
#> # ... with 57 more rows
```

-   `id` is a Police force specific team identifier, (note that this identifier is not unique and may also be used by a different force).
-   `name` is the name for the neighbourhood.

`ukp_crime_street_point` draws crimes from within a one mile radius.

``` r

ukp_crime_street_point(lat = 52.629729, lng = -1.131592)
#> No encoding supplied: defaulting to UTF-8.
#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character
#> # A tibble: 1,386 × 13
#>                 category context       id location_subtype location_type
#>                    <chr>   <chr>    <chr>            <chr>         <chr>
#> 1  anti-social-behaviour         50559804                          Force
#> 2  anti-social-behaviour         50565912                          Force
#> 3  anti-social-behaviour         50562730                          Force
#> 4  anti-social-behaviour         50562692                          Force
#> 5  anti-social-behaviour         50562689                          Force
#> 6  anti-social-behaviour         50562680                          Force
#> 7  anti-social-behaviour         50565899                          Force
#> 8  anti-social-behaviour         50559811                          Force
#> 9  anti-social-behaviour         50559816                          Force
#> 10 anti-social-behaviour         50562670                          Force
#> # ... with 1,376 more rows, and 8 more variables: latitude <chr>,
#> #   longitude <chr>, street_id <chr>, street_name <chr>, date <chr>,
#> #   persistent_id <chr>, outcome_category <chr>, outcome_date <chr>
```

This is still a little buggy at the moment as it returns blank columns, but this is a work in progress!

### Code of Conduct

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.

Commit message:

update information on govt license

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
ukpolice
========

[![AppVeyor Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/njtierney/ukpolice?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/njtierney/ukpolice)[![Travis-CI Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/njtierney/ukpolice.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/njtierney/ukpolice)[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/njtierney/ukpolice/master.svg)](https://codecov.io/github/njtierney/ukpolice?branch=master)

ukpolice is an R package that facilitates retrieving data from the [UK police database.](https://data.police.uk/).

The data provided by the API contains public sector information licensed under the [Open Government Licence v3.0.](http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/).

This package is in a very beta stage, and I'm still learning a lot about APIs!

Installation
============

Install from GitHub

``` r

#install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("njtierney/ukpolice")
```

Usage
=====

`ukp_neighbourhood`, retrieves a list of neighbourhoods for a force, <https://data.police.uk/docs/method/neighbourhoods/>

This returns a tibble with columns `id` and `name`.

``` r

library(ukpolice)
ukp_neighbourhood("leicestershire")
#> No encoding supplied: defaulting to UTF-8.
#> # A tibble: 67 × 2
#>       id                           name
#>    <chr>                          <chr>
#> 1   NC04                    City Centre
#> 2   NC66               Cultural Quarter
#> 3   NC67                      Riverside
#> 4   NC68                 Clarendon Park
#> 5   NE09                 Belgrave South
#> 6   NE10                 Belgrave North
#> 7   NE11                    Rushey Mead
#> 8   NE12                    Humberstone
#> 9   NE13 Northfields, Tailby and Morton
#> 10  NE14                     Thurncourt
#> # ... with 57 more rows
```

-   `id` is a Police force specific team identifier, (note that this identifier is not unique and may also be used by a different force).
-   `name` is the name for the neighbourhood.

`ukp_crime_street_point` draws crimes from within a one mile radius of the location.

``` r

ukp_crime_street_point(lat = 52.629729, lng = -1.131592)
#> No encoding supplied: defaulting to UTF-8.
#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character

#> Warning in bind_rows_(x, .id): Unequal factor levels: coercing to character
#> # A tibble: 1,386 × 13
#>                 category context       id location_subtype location_type
#>                    <chr>   <chr>    <chr>            <chr>         <chr>
#> 1  anti-social-behaviour         50559804                          Force
#> 2  anti-social-behaviour         50565912                          Force
#> 3  anti-social-behaviour         50562730                          Force
#> 4  anti-social-behaviour         50562692                          Force
#> 5  anti-social-behaviour         50562689                          Force
#> 6  anti-social-behaviour         50562680                          Force
#> 7  anti-social-behaviour         50565899                          Force
#> 8  anti-social-behaviour         50559811                          Force
#> 9  anti-social-behaviour         50559816                          Force
#> 10 anti-social-behaviour         50562670                          Force
#> # ... with 1,376 more rows, and 8 more variables: latitude <chr>,
#> #   longitude <chr>, street_id <chr>, street_name <chr>, date <chr>,
#> #   persistent_id <chr>, outcome_category <chr>, outcome_date <chr>
```

This is still a little buggy at the moment as it returns blank columns, but this is a work in progress!

### Code of Conduct

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.
